A week without social networks – Celia Kherfallah 


Cell phone are constantly being improved  by expanding upon their fonctionnalities, to the point that it has become an essential part of our lives.
According to recent research the numbre of mobile phone users is forecast to reach 4.77 billon in other words it represents 62 percent of the population and some individuals develop an addiction to their mobile devices, psychologists  call it Nomophobia, the disease of  the century. 

I often depict myself as a no addicted person even if I'm in computer science consequently I'm usually glued to a sceen... Thinking back this issue concerns me a lot... It's high time to start a digit detox ‘A week without social networks'

I'm not the kind of person who makes a fixation on their cell phone, the proof of that is that I dont have the latest trendy phone, I don't spends 3 hours stuck on my phone's screen.
I have neither an account in snapchat, nor an account in Instragram, the reason is that, I believe that scrutinizing people's lives is a waste of time, it's not my favorite activity and I prefer injoy the present moment rather than capturing it.
but i like using twitter and facebook it's a way to stay connected wich the enter world.

firstly,  I applied the rules of the digit detox, I have deleted all social media apps from my phone and turned all sound notifications off.

The first two days of the detox went right, before starting I was little bit afraid not to waking up morning, in fact I use it as an alarm o'clock.
However putting it outside mybedroom turns out to be a very good idea, it's lead me to get up to turn it off, so no more alarm clock with a snooze button.
Thanks to that I can tell I'm waking up better and feel far less exhausted in the morning. 

the following days were more difficult, my thoughts turned to my work emails and my family.So, I had two major concerns, the first one was about my familly, actually I live alone and my phone is this only way to stay connected with my them, so if something bad happens I will just be informed in the evenings.
the seconde one was about missing an important email.

Apart from that, I have realized that  it was not necessary to stay connected to receive news, if a new discovery or natural disaster catastrophe happens
I will heard  either by  traditional media or  my friends.Furthermore, my phone doesn't disturb me anymore while studying, keeping it away from me helps me a lot,  and makes me save time.

Unfortunately, I spend more than two hours travelling to and from the university, without my phone I felt bored and sleepy when I'd usually surfing the internet, 
my phone turns out to be very useful and undoubtedly allows us much creativity.

At the end of the digit detox, I felt released from my cell phone, I've finaly learned to manage my time, I have even changed some of my habits. From now on, if I want to ask after someone, I naturally go out with him.

I come to the conclusion that technology may be incredibly useful and educational, it allows us much connectivity and enjoyment, but it also can be a fatal loss of time. 
So if it begins to distract you from doing what you should be doing - like your job or your education, or it is negatively impacting your life, then it starts to become dangerous.
I also relized that we don't need to use all this social media and smart's apps, there are other ways to stay informed.
But I’ll admit it’s hard to function in the world today without technology.
this is why we have to Use Technology, and Don't let It ise us.